.TH SNACTOR "1" "2025-02-14" "snactor 0.19.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
snactor \- development and repository management tool for leapp

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snactor
[\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR]
[\fB--version\fR]
[\fB--logger-config\fR <\fILOGGER_CONFIG>\fR]
[\fB--config\fR <\fICONFIG>\fR]
[\fB--verbose\fR]
[\fB--debug\fR]
<\fIcommand\fR> [\fIcommand options\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnactor\fR is designed to get you quickly started with \fBleapp\fR actor development and allows you to create and run custom workflows.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
    Show usage info and exit.

\fB--version\fR
    Show version number of the utility and exit.

\fB--logger-config\fR <\fILOGGER_CONFIG\fR>
    Allow overriding the default location of \fIlogger.conf\fR. See \fBLEAPP_LOGGER_CONFIG\fR for more information.

\fB--config\fR <\fICONFIG\fR>
    Allow overriding the default location of \fIleapp.conf\fR. See \fBLEAPP_CONFIG\fR for more information.

\fB--debug\fR
    Print all available log messages (debug, info, warning, error, critical) and output of executed commands to stderr.
    By default only error and critical level messages are printed.

\fB--verbose\fR
    Print all but debug log messages (info, warning, error, critical) to stderr.
    By default only error and critical level messages are printed.


.SH COMMANDS
.B discover
    Discovers all available entities in the current repository.

.B new-actor
    Creates a new actor.

.B new-model
    Creates a new model.

.B new-tag
    Creates a new tag.

.B new-topic
    Creates a new topic.

.B run
    Executes the given actor.

.B messages
    Messaging related commands.

.B workflow
    Workflow related commands.

.B repo
    Repository related commands.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B LEAPP_CONFIG
.RS 4
Overrides the default location of \fIleapp.conf\fR. If not specified, \fI.leapp/leapp.conf\fR is used when the command is executed inside a leapp repository, otherwise the default \fI/etc/leapp/leapp.conf\fR is used.
.RE

.B LEAPP_LOGGER_CONFIG
.RS 4
Overrides the default location of \fIlogger.conf\fR. If not specified, the default \fI/etc/leapp/logger.conf\fR is used.
.RE

.B LEAPP_DEBUG
.RS 4
Enables debug logging. See \fB--debug\fR for more information.
.RE

.B LEAPP_VERBOSE
.RS 4
Enables verbose logging. See \fB--verbose\fR for more information.
.RE


.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla (\fIhttps://bugzilla.redhat.com\fR) under the `Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7` product and the `leapp-repository` component.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR leapp (1)

More info available at \fIhttps://leapp.readthedocs.io/\fR.
